.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH BCA-DIFF 1  "big-code-analysis 1.1.0" "big-code-analysis Manual"
.SH NAME
bca\-diff \- Compare two metric\-output runs and report, per metric, which files changed (old to new), plus files added/removed between the two sets. Each side is a per\-file JSON file or a directory tree of them (the form `bca metrics \-O json \-\-output DIR` writes). Replaces the grammar\-bump glue chain — the external `json\-minimal\-tests` binary plus `split\-minimal\-tests.py` — with one native command. Always exits 0 on success; the diff is informational, not a gate
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbca\-diff\fR [\fB\-\-since\fR] [\fB\-\-format\fR] [\fB\-\-min\-change\fR] [\fB\-\-metric\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fIOLD\fR] [\fINEW\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Compare two metric\-output runs and report, per metric, which files changed (old to new), plus files added/removed between the two sets. Each side is a per\-file JSON file or a directory tree of them (the form `bca metrics \-O json \-\-output DIR` writes). Replaces the grammar\-bump glue chain — the external `json\-minimal\-tests` binary plus `split\-minimal\-tests.py` — with one native command. Always exits 0 on success; the diff is informational, not a gate
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-since\fR \fI<SINCE>\fR
Analyze the tree at this git ref for the "before" side instead of reading a captured metric set. Hard\-errors (exit 1) if the process is not in a git checkout, `git` is missing, or the ref does not resolve. Honors the same `\-\-paths` / `\-\-include` / `\-\-exclude` selection as the rest of the CLI so both sides analyze the same file set.

In this mode the before side comes from `<ref>`, so at most one positional is accepted and it is the *after* side (a source tree to analyze); omit it to analyze the current working tree. Passing two positionals with `\-\-since` is rejected at runtime.
.TP
\fB\-\-format\fR \fI<FORMAT>\fR [default: tty]
Output style: `tty` (default), `markdown`, or `json`
.br

.br
\fIPossible values:\fR
.RS 14
.IP \(bu 2
tty
.IP \(bu 2
markdown
.IP \(bu 2
json
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-min\-change\fR \fI<MIN_CHANGE>\fR [default: 0]
Minimum absolute change for a per\-file metric delta to be reported. `0` (the default) reports any change of any size; raise it to suppress small deltas and surface only the larger metric movements (e.g. on a grammar bump)
.TP
\fB\-\-metric\fR \fI<METRIC>\fR
Restrict the diff to one or more metrics (repeatable). Names are those printed by `bca list\-metrics` (e.g. `cyclomatic`, `sloc`). When omitted, every metric is reported
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help (see a summary with \*(Aq\-h\*(Aq)
.TP
[\fIOLD\fR]
In file/dir mode: the old (base) metric output — the "before" side (a per\-file JSON file or a directory of per\-file JSON). In `\-\-since` mode: an optional after\-side *source tree* to analyze instead of the working tree. Because the before side is a `git archive` of the whole ref tree (rooted at the repo top), this tree must be rooted comparably — pass a full checkout, not a subdirectory, or the root\-relative keys will not line up and every file is reported as both added and removed. Omit it to analyze the working tree
.TP
[\fINEW\fR]
In file/dir mode: the new (after) metric output (a per\-file JSON file or a directory of them). Not used in `\-\-since` mode, where the after side is the optional first positional (or the working tree) — a second positional with `\-\-since` is rejected at runtime
