.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH BCA-CHECK 1  "big-code-analysis 1.1.0" "big-code-analysis Manual"
.SH NAME
bca\-check \- Check per\-function metrics against thresholds. Exits 2 when any threshold is exceeded; reserve exit 1 for tool errors so CI can distinguish "metric regression" from "tool crashed"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbca\-check\fR [\fB\-\-threshold\fR] [\fB\-\-config\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-fail\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-suppress\fR] [\fB\-O\fR|\fB\-\-output\-format\fR] [\fB\-o\fR|\fB\-\-output\fR] [\fB\-\-baseline\fR] [\fB\-\-write\-baseline\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-summary\fR] [\fB\-\-since\fR] [\fB\-\-changed\-only\fR] [\fB\-\-github\-annotations\fR] [\fB\-\-summary\-file\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-remediation\fR] [\fB\-\-print\-effective\-config\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Check per\-function metrics against thresholds. Exits 2 when any threshold is exceeded; reserve exit 1 for tool errors so CI can distinguish "metric regression" from "tool crashed"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-threshold\fR \fI<THRESHOLDS>\fR
Threshold expressed as `<metric>=<limit>`. Repeatable. Metric names match `bca list\-metrics`; sub\-metrics use a dotted form (e.g. `loc.lloc`, `halstead.volume`). CLI flags override values from `\-\-config`. Limits must be finite and non\-negative; `0` is allowed and means "no value permitted"
.TP
\fB\-\-config\fR \fI<CONFIG>\fR
Path to a TOML config with a `[thresholds]` table:

```toml [thresholds] cyclomatic = 15 "loc.lloc" = 200 ```
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-fail\fR
Print offenders to stderr but exit 0 even when thresholds are exceeded. Useful while adopting baselines without flipping CI red. Default: exit 2 when any threshold is exceeded
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-suppress\fR
Ignore in\-source suppression markers (`bca: suppress`, `#lizard forgives`, etc.). Every threshold violation is reported regardless of comment\-based silencers. CI auditors pass this to see the raw, un\-silenced offender list
.TP
\fB\-O\fR, \fB\-\-output\-format\fR \fI<OUTPUT_FORMAT>\fR
CI/IDE document format for offender records (Checkstyle 4.3 XML, SARIF 2.1.0 JSON, GitLab Code Climate JSON, clang/GCC warning lines, MSVC warning lines). When omitted, only the human\-readable stderr stream is emitted; the exit\-code contract is unaffected
.br

.br
\fIPossible values:\fR
.RS 14
.IP \(bu 2
checkstyle
.IP \(bu 2
clang\-warning
.IP \(bu 2
code\-climate
.IP \(bu 2
msvc\-warning
.IP \(bu 2
sarif
.RE
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR \fI<OUTPUT>\fR
File path for the aggregated offender document. Stdout if omitted. Only meaningful together with `\-\-output\-format`. Parent directories are created on demand
.TP
\fB\-\-baseline\fR \fI<BASELINE>\fR
Filter known offenders listed in this TOML baseline. A baselined function whose metric value has not worsened is suppressed; a worsened value (or any new offender) still fails. See the "Baselines" recipe in the book for the full adoption flow
.TP
\fB\-\-write\-baseline\fR \fI<WRITE_BASELINE>\fR
Walk the tree and write the current offender set to this path instead of failing. The resulting file pins today\*(Aqs metric values as the baseline; subsequent `\-\-baseline <path>` runs ratchet down from there. Conflicts with `\-\-baseline`, `\-\-output\-format`, `\-\-output`, `\-\-since`, and `\-\-changed\-only` — diff\-scope filtering would write a *partial* baseline that the next non\-`\-\-changed\-only` run would treat as a complete snapshot, silently masking every offender outside the diff scope
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-summary\fR
Skip the trailing per\-file rollup footer. The footer groups violations by file and cites the single worst\-ratio metric per file. Pass this when downstream tooling grep\-pipes the stderr stream and would be confused by the trailing summary block. Default: footer enabled
.TP
\fB\-\-since\fR \fI<SINCE>\fR
Git ref to diff `HEAD` against. The set of files reported by `git diff \-\-name\-only <ref>...HEAD` is surfaced first in the summary footer under "Files in this range:", so a reader scanning a CI log sees their own contributions before the legacy offender list. Defaults to auto\-detection from `BCA_DIFF_BASE`, `GITHUB_BASE_REF` (PR runs), or `GITHUB_EVENT_BEFORE` (push runs), in that precedence
.TP
\fB\-\-changed\-only\fR
Drop violations from files outside the `\-\-since`/auto\-detected touched set entirely (terser CI output for PR gates). Requires a resolvable diff base, either via `\-\-since` or one of the auto\-detected env vars; failing to resolve is fatal so a misconfigured CI does not silently turn the gate into a no\-op
.TP
\fB\-\-github\-annotations\fR
Emit GitHub Actions `::error file=…,line=…,title=…::msg` workflow commands per violation so the GHA UI renders them as inline annotations on the file\-diff view. Additive to the human\-readable stderr stream — annotations ride on top, they don\*(Aqt replace it. Auto\-enabled when `$GITHUB_ACTIONS == "true"`. Capped at 10 per metric (GitHub Actions surfaces at most 10 errors per step in the UI); overflow rolls up to one `::error::N more <metric> violations not shown` line per affected metric so the count is still visible
.TP
\fB\-\-summary\-file\fR \fI<SUMMARY_FILE>\fR
File path to append a markdown digest of the violations to — per\-file rollup table, per\-metric breakdown, and top\-N offenders by `value / limit` ratio. Mirrors the format `bca report markdown` produces so a reader skimming the GHA step\-summary panel sees a familiar table layout. When this flag is omitted, auto\-detect via `$GITHUB_STEP_SUMMARY`. The block is bracketed by HTML\-comment markers so a retried step replaces (not stacks) the previous digest
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-remediation\fR
Suppress the trailing "\-\-\- next steps \-\-\-" remediation block that names the artifact, prints a copy\-paste\-safe `\-\-write\-baseline` refresh invocation, and links to the Baselines recipe. By default the block is emitted on failure (and in `$GITHUB_STEP_SUMMARY` when present) so a first\-time reader of a failing CI log can see what to do next without leaving the page
.TP
\fB\-\-print\-effective\-config\fR [\fI<FORMAT>\fR]
Print the resolved threshold/check configuration (after merging `\-\-config` TOML + `\-\-threshold` CLI overrides) to stdout, then exit 0 without walking the codebase. Default format is TOML; pass `=json` for JSON. Mutually exclusive with `\-\-write\-baseline` — this flag is a read\-only debug aid, not a side\-effecting operation. Output is round\-trippable: piping it back through `\-\-config` produces the same effective view
.br

.br
\fIPossible values:\fR
.RS 14
.IP \(bu 2
toml
.IP \(bu 2
json
.RE
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help (see a summary with \*(Aq\-h\*(Aq)
