.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH BCA-DIFF-BASELINE 1  "big-code-analysis 1.1.0" "big-code-analysis Manual"
.SH NAME
bca\-diff\-baseline \- Diff two `.bca\-baseline.toml` files and report what was added, removed, worsened, or improved. Replaces the in\-the\-head TOML diff parsing the book\*(Aqs PR\-review recipe used to walk through. Always exits 0 on success — the diff is informational, not a gate
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbca\-diff\-baseline\fR [\fB\-\-format\fR] [\fB\-\-added\-only\fR] [\fB\-\-removed\-only\fR] [\fB\-\-worsened\-only\fR] [\fB\-\-improved\-only\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] <\fIOLD\fR> <\fINEW\fR> 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Diff two `.bca\-baseline.toml` files and report what was added, removed, worsened, or improved. Replaces the in\-the\-head TOML diff parsing the book\*(Aqs PR\-review recipe used to walk through. Always exits 0 on success — the diff is informational, not a gate
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-format\fR \fI<FORMAT>\fR [default: tty]
Output style: `tty` (default), `markdown`, or `json`
.br

.br
\fIPossible values:\fR
.RS 14
.IP \(bu 2
tty
.IP \(bu 2
markdown
.IP \(bu 2
json
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-added\-only\fR
Render only the "Added" section (combinable with the other `\-\-*\-only` flags). Ignored by `\-\-format json`
.TP
\fB\-\-removed\-only\fR
Render only the "Removed" section. Ignored by `\-\-format json`
.TP
\fB\-\-worsened\-only\fR
Render only the "Worsened" section. Ignored by `\-\-format json`
.TP
\fB\-\-improved\-only\fR
Render only the "Improved" section. Ignored by `\-\-format json`
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help
.TP
<\fIOLD\fR>
Old (base) baseline file — the "before" side of the diff
.TP
<\fINEW\fR>
New (updated) baseline file — the "after" side of the diff
