.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH BCA 1  "big-code-analysis 1.1.0" "big-code-analysis Manual"
.SH NAME
bca \- Analyze source code.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbca\fR [\fB\-p\fR|\fB\-\-paths\fR] [\fB\-I\fR|\fB\-\-include\fR] [\fB\-X\fR|\fB\-\-exclude\fR] [\fB\-j\fR|\fB\-\-num\-jobs\fR] [\fB\-l\fR|\fB\-\-language\-type\fR] [\fB\-\-ls\fR] [\fB\-\-le\fR] [\fB\-w\fR|\fB\-\-warning\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-skip\-generated\fR] [\fB\-\-report\-skipped\fR] [\fB\-\-preproc\-data\fR] [\fB\-\-paths\-from\fR] [\fB\-\-exclude\-from\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-ignore\fR] [\fB\-\-exclude\-tests\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-cyclomatic\-try\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-config\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR] <\fIsubcommands\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Analyze source code.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-paths\fR \fI<PATHS>\fR
Input files or directories to analyze
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-include\fR [\fI<INCLUDE>...\fR]
Glob to include files
.TP
\fB\-X\fR, \fB\-\-exclude\fR [\fI<EXCLUDE>...\fR]
Glob to exclude files
.TP
\fB\-j\fR, \fB\-\-num\-jobs\fR \fI<N|auto>\fR [default: auto]
Number of jobs.

Defaults to the effective CPU count as reported by the OS (cgroup\-quota\- and cpuset\-aware on Linux). Pass an explicit integer or `auto` to override. `\-\-num\-jobs 1` forces serial mode for debugging.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-language\-type\fR \fI<LANGUAGE_TYPE>\fR
Force a language type instead of inferring from extension
.TP
\fB\-\-ls\fR \fI<LINE_START>\fR
Line start (used by `dump` and `find`)
.TP
\fB\-\-le\fR \fI<LINE_END>\fR
Line end (used by `dump` and `find`)
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-warning\fR
Print warnings (skipped files, unrecognized languages)
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-skip\-generated\fR
Disable auto\-skip of files marked as generated (e.g. `@generated`, `DO NOT EDIT`, `GENERATED CODE` near the top). By default the CLI skips such files so generated bindings do not skew metrics
.TP
\fB\-\-report\-skipped\fR
Log a "skipped (generated): <path>" line to stderr for each file auto\-skipped by the generated\-code detector. Useful for auditing which files were excluded
.TP
\fB\-\-preproc\-data\fR \fI<PREPROC_DATA>\fR
Existing preprocessor\-data JSON to consume during C/C++ analysis. Use `bca preproc` to produce one
.TP
\fB\-\-paths\-from\fR \fI<PATHS_FROM>\fR
Read newline\-separated input paths from a file. Use `\-` to read from stdin. Combined as a union with any `\-\-paths` values; globs still apply. Blank lines are skipped; `#` is treated as a path character (not a comment). To pass a file literally named `\-`, use `./\-`
.TP
\fB\-\-exclude\-from\fR \fI<EXCLUDE_FROM>\fR
Read additional `\-\-exclude` glob patterns from a file (one per line, `.gitignore`\-style). Blank lines and lines whose first non\-whitespace character is `#` are skipped. Use `\-` to read from stdin; to pass a file literally named `\-`, use `./\-`. Patterns are unioned with any `\-\-exclude` values into a single deny\-set; order does not matter. Convention is a `.bcaignore` at the repo root, mirroring `.gitignore` / `.dockerignore`
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-ignore\fR
Disable `.gitignore` / `.ignore` / global gitignore awareness when expanding directory seeds. Explicit file paths are always honored regardless of this flag
.TP
\fB\-\-exclude\-tests\fR
Exclude inline test code from metric computation. Currently applies to Rust only (skips `#[test]`, `#[cfg(test)]`, `#[tokio::test]`, `#[rstest]`, `#![cfg(test)]` items and their subtrees). Default is off — every node is counted, so numbers match the pre\-#182 behaviour byte\-for\-byte. Languages without a `Checker::should_skip_subtree` override ignore this flag
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-cyclomatic\-try\fR
Stop Rust\*(Aqs `?` operator (the `try_expression` node) from contributing to cyclomatic complexity (standard and modified). By default `?` counts +1, matching upstream rust\-code\-analysis and every published metric value. Pass this to treat `?` as linear error propagation — useful when cyclomatic is used as a maintainability gate that should not penalize fallible\-but\- linear code. Rust\-only: no other language emits the node, so the flag is inert elsewhere. Mirrors the `cyclomatic_count_try` manifest key (the CLI flag wins when both are set)
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-config\fR
Skip auto\-discovery of a `bca.toml` manifest. By default `bca` climbs from the working directory to the repo root looking for `bca.toml` and merges its keys *under* any explicit CLI flags. Pass this for raw, fully\-explicit invocations that must not pick up repo\-level config (e.g. a reproducible CI one\-liner). When no manifest is discovered this flag is a no\-op
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help (see a summary with \*(Aq\-h\*(Aq)
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
bca\-metrics(1)
Compute per\-file metrics and emit them in a structured format
.TP
bca\-ops(1)
Extract per\-file operands and operators
.TP
bca\-report(1)
Generate an aggregated report across the analyzed source
.TP
bca\-dump(1)
Dump the AST to stdout
.TP
bca\-find(1)
Find nodes of one or more types
.TP
bca\-count(1)
Count nodes of one or more types
.TP
bca\-functions(1)
List functions/methods and their spans
.TP
bca\-strip\-comments(1)
Remove comments from source files
.TP
bca\-preproc(1)
Generate preprocessor\-data JSON for C/C++ analysis
.TP
bca\-list\-metrics(1)
List the metrics this tool can compute and exit
.TP
bca\-check(1)
Check per\-function metrics against thresholds. Exits 2 when any threshold is exceeded; reserve exit 1 for tool errors so CI can distinguish "metric regression" from "tool crashed". `\-\-strict\-exit\-codes` opts into tiered codes (2\-5) that split the violation case by severity
.TP
bca\-init(1)
Scaffold the canonical adoption files (`bca\-thresholds.toml`, `.bcaignore`, `.bca\-baseline.toml`) in the current directory. Replaces the six\-step copy\-paste flow from the book\*(Aqs adoption recipe. Refuses to overwrite existing files without `\-\-force`
.TP
bca\-diff\-baseline(1)
Diff two `.bca\-baseline.toml` files and report what was added, removed, worsened, or improved. Replaces the in\-the\-head TOML diff parsing the book\*(Aqs PR\-review recipe used to walk through. Always exits 0 on success — the diff is informational, not a gate
.TP
bca\-exemptions(1)
Audit everything the `bca check` gate skips in one view: in\-source suppression markers (`bca: suppress`, `#lizard forgives`, …), `[check.exclude]` globs, and `.bca\-baseline.toml` entries. Read\-only; always exits 0 on success
.TP
bca\-help(1)
Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)
.SH EXTRA
Migrating from the flag\-style CLI? See the migration guide:
  big\-code\-analysis\-book/src/migration.md
.SH VERSION
v1.1.0
.SH AUTHORS
Calixte Denizet <cdenizet@mozilla.com>, Elijah Zupancic <elijah@zupancic.name>
